Welcome back everyone.
In this lesson we're gonna go into polynomial regression polynomial regression is particularly useful
when you're dealing with non-linear relationship which is what we're going to explore.
Again I'm going to skip through the math without going into depth on those.
I just want to illustrate with example the basic concept of how to do with non linear relationship but
using polynomial regression.
Again we use import the usual library and the basic psychic line and this is just to illustrate to you
which version of an umpire panders.
And the rest of the packages and libraries I'm using now more to the point really is this portion here.
This formula this method Miller as you can tell here is X to the power of three clearly is not linear.
Plus 100 which means we are raising the offset by 100 hundred plus error item.
And I'm going to model that using random numbers and we're gonna do it 100 samples linear space here
basically means that we're breaking the x from zero to a 10 100 subsegments and we're generating 100
random numbers here by 100.
Multiply it by 100 just to increase the scale and for this is why is extra the power three plus random
number that we've generated here plus 100.
So basically that's this formula here.
So extra bar three random number and 100 and I'm plotting it out just so that you can actually see what
it looks like using a scatter diagram.
Looking at this you can see that the score it is not linear.
That's the first thing that you can observe.
Second of all you probably can't see clearly here is that the so-called line has been raised by 1 100.
OK.
So it is 100.
The reason that we can't really see the clear line here is because what I have done is this function
here.
All right.
This multiply by 100 created substantial amount of noise which I want the machine learning model to
actually model that.
OK.
To to see through the noise and to be able to identify the underlying patterns that's being generated
now in real life.
You're not going to have access to this formula.
Okay although you're going to see is when you plot a vision I get a diagram I'll visualize that you're
going to see something that looks like this.
And from that you're going to have to deduce that well this is what there's no way that the relationship
between X and Y is going to be linear no matter how I draw a straight line.
It's just not going to fit the data.
There is a certain underlying pattern here which goes fairly flat and then start to accelerate upwards.
S x increases.
All right so those are the things that you have to observe Of course this will come of intuition and
as you are exposed to more more examples you start to get the idea of how to actually tackle the problem
directly.
Now I'm going to just show you something here just so that it's clear now what happened if I am more
removed the error term and how you removed that is just basically remove this term altogether like that.
Okay.
Just cut it away and you can actually run this again.
You can see right the clear pattern that comes with it.
And if you look carefully this is actually well it should ought to be 100 really expert apology past
100 so the starting point should really be 100 but visually it doesn't look like it but it should be.
And the second thing is that you can see that this is not linear.
OK.
The noise kind of mask could just removed that and just make it less so.
So that is actually in this formula here extra laboratory plus 100 plus random number is generated and
from there as you can actually see the So core it is not linear technically is extra power three but
you don't know that.
So the only way to do that is just visualized and then start generating model and using performance
evaluation to see how close we are to the the empirical data they will observe.
So let's go back to what we had before which is really the noise and what we did here is that we generate
100 sample based on what we specify here and then we multiply number by 100.
So the scale of those random number generated are magnified by 100 times.
Okay.
They need random number as you're probably aware is a general one hundred but as between 0 and 1 by
multiplying by 100.
So this is should be minus 1 to 1.
Okay.
With the mean of 0.
Multiply by 100 and magnify it.
So you can see that from 100 but go below and we go above depending on whether the number is positive
or negative 0 5.
Gone through that at length the next part then is really looking at how we model the data using linear
models.
All right.
So let's start with the matrix of Our Square and you have this you have seen before generating in terms
of creating a model selecting the model predicting the model from the data that we have and try to see
if we are able to well come close to modeling the data using the underlying machine model from our square
says 76 percent.
Well close as always there's no way for you to tell which is the best male model.
So the best the next best way says you don't have something to compare against is to actually create
another model.
Just as a comparison.
Now I mentioned before looking at the underlying just purely the visualized as visualization aspect
of it you should have been to actually identify that it is not normal.
Right.
Meaning is not linear.
So what we do here is we import from psychic land pre processing import what's called a polynomial features
and we stated that we want to actually go up to second degree meaning extra power to and we perform
fit transform of x.
All right.
Using poly rigged which we instantiate here.
Now basically we are actually transforming the X itself.
And again we perform my linear regression this time where you called this model Lin underscore regression
underscore too this is the second model.
This was the first model that has the first model.
So fit the actual x poly which we actually generated here and then Y and then perform our so-called
prediction M plotting that out.
It fits the data substantially better.
Okay.
Now remembering our formula which we use to generate this data is X to the power of three.
Okay let's come back here next to the power three.
Now when we actually stated polynomial features degree is good too.
All right.
So what does that actually mean.
So let me just go over the cycle and polynomial features go to the documentation.
Okay.
So you can see here that it actually states how the default is too.
Okay and the degree allows you to state so extra about zero extra power one extra power two extra policy.
Let me come back here to look at the actual underlying data itself.
Remember that we are looking at feature generating this feature.
Degrees good too.
All right.
So just remember X capital x.
Okay let me just show you with the first five.
Okay.
Let's try X poly cap ex capital x p and we'll look at the first five value looking at this.
We are generating a constant term followed by the original data term followed by the X to the power
of to term.
Okay so this is X to the power to.
Now if you want to go one step further meaning degree three okay.
Then you can poly normal features and then the specified degree is equal to three and we generate something
that similar to this.
Okay but we're going to call this degree 3 an example.
All right.
So basically fit transforming the actual X..
Again just to show you now if we look at example and look at the first five values it's gonna be a repeat
of this.
You have the constant term you have the original term extra power of 0 which is 1 really.
So the actual underlying value itself then you have the extra the power.
And then you have the extra the past three with the example.
Hopefully that is a little bit clearer.
Damaged.
Just to go one step further just to ensure that you really really understand this.
I'm gonna go one step further.
I'm gonna I'm gonna use
zero one two three four five.
Okay.
That ought to be pretty clear now.
And the next thing is we're going to just directly make use of the polynomial degree.
Okay so result to fit.
Transform.
Except that this time we have for transforming our yes.
And so you can see the detail right away.
OK so looking at past years which is Rio 0 1 2 3 4 5.
You can see here we have the constant terms you're one two three four five.
Now this is the square.
I hope that's substantially clearer just to go one step further so that we can actually take this off
the ball park with clarity.
And finally there's not Polly rigged.
This is core degree tree.
And if I run that you should see that this one and then the value itself to the power to her battery.
OK.
Having done that let's.
We've already seen this.
This is substantially closer than the linear that we saw before which is over here.
And if you go to extra power to it's substantially closer.
We know the answer is X for the power three within the range that we're looking at from zero to 10.
It's not so obvious once you actually have data going to 20.
Execute a 20 extra 240 extra to 100 then it will becomes very obvious.
But within this range is substantially close.
Okay.
That's the problem of the fact that we haven't gathered enough data and to narrow a range which is why
we weren't able to observe empirically that this model is not quite the best one.
Okay.
Although it's better than linear but it's not the best one.
It should really be extra policy.
So these you have to actually as you collect more data you might have to revise a model over time.
But having done that would just go one step further and look at real data.
And I want to look at this to a variable here this and NOx and just to illustrate the concept slightly
different this notice that this is a decreasing function as it get closer and closer to point 4 or 0
is start to flatten out.
OK.
The the actual speed of decline decreases.
Clearly this is not linear either.
But we can actually start with the linear modeling and you can see the R squares point five nine.
Now I'm not going to go through this.
I'll leave it to you to actually go through the line because really is a repeat of before we've gone
through there except my cone now is substantially more compact.
This is the actual the first tree line is the modeling the following for line really is just plotting
and the best fit line of best best fit is here and you can see to ask where is 59 if we try to the power
to
OK to the power to really again is that we have the polynomial features for transform and then instantiate
the model for day to a data itself.
And this part here really is rearranging so that we have we extract the minimum and we extract the largess
with the step of one just so that we can actually have the x fitted x axis data so that we can actually
perform the prediction.
All right.
So this where the y underscore prediction is about now the reason for doing this step is so that I am
really trying to top up X in an even interval and I'm going to use that as my independent data to predict
my dependent variable which is why in this case ultimately up the you created the model you want to
actually run the prediction just to see what the outcome looks like.
How close is it to the actual origin or data in our case.
Because from my intuition of looking at it is that I just want to actually have even these base x so
that I can see run the prediction to generate and see what the Y is mapped to.
And then compared to the original data and then after that really is just a matter of visualizing it.
And if you look at this well I don't ask where it tells you it is better.
This part is a problem.
OK so that means we need to actually use something else maybe log or some other method to you know to
it to model this better but nevertheless I wanted to illustrate two things.
Just using polynomial might not solve your problem.
That's the first thing.
Second thing is that ask where although has improve might not be the best thing I.
It may have worked between the range from 0 to 8 but beyond that it actually is a terrible model.
And this is also part of building the machine learning model is that you need to understand the range
that your M.L. is good at and keep it working within the optimal zone.
Beyond that you might want to actually consider not utilizing the model at all.
And quite often in real world you use multiple models one you know basically car like benchmarking and
always having multiple M.L. to compete against each other so that there is a check and balances against
each other.
Let's try Kubik so I'm meaning to the degree of three and run this whole exercise again.
And as you plot it out.
Okay.
The Oscar improve in a very marginally 0.01 and Fs you can see it this did improve those start to dip
twisters and here.
Now this is the one on the problem of using higher polynomial meaning X the poetry and higher you're
gonna have to fit all the fittings but to kick in it's a concept that I haven't talked about much it's
something that we'll start to talk about in future lessons I just want to wrap up this lesson to just
give you basically the whole idea of this lesson is to give you another perspective that you can utilize
and another you know another tool or technique set in your armory to solve the problem that you have
to model after the real world data and the polynomial is quite often a good way to do it because it's
technically not what you will call higher dimensional and that in this sense basically is too linear
the model they have created is too linear whereas the difference is that you are just adding the so-called
x term by using the original data use but this original data you created extra to power to extra power
three so that they are a bit more flexibility.
Okay so that's really the basic idea polynomial just really extending the linear models to to it so
that it becomes more flexible and more powerful.
I hope this lesson has been useful.
And thank you for watching.